---
layout: post
title: "Hello to Future At Eleven"
author: "Mike Levin"
categories: blog
slug: hello-to-future-at-eleven
permalink: /blog/hello-to-future-at-eleven/
---

Hello World! It's Mike At Eleven!

The purpose of today's video is to get down a bit of the purpose of this site.
It's not just to force a self-lesson in commitment and consistency (which it
is), but it's even more importantly to talk to future-Adi, my child.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="2zeVobb2QBM" %}

Adi is homeschooled and going through a lot of similar experiences now as the
rest of her generation. Her homeschool experience is suddenly no longer so
unusual, and that's awesome. They're being raised in-part by her YouTube heroes
and we've been to the YouTube convention in Anaheim, CA a few years back before
lockdown. They're now 10 and we'll be coning again this year, but this time
there will be 2 adults and more time at Disney Land. Anyhoo, I digress. Let's
talk to future Adi.

Hi there Kiddo! I already lost you I bet. Every time I try to teach you
something you transition. I've got so much to show and teach and help you with
in life, it's one of the most difficult things that I can't do it in "normal"
talking format. However I get it. The other side is where you homeschool and
you're here in the mountains of PA to relax and chill.

At least when you're doing your YouTubing, it can be while you're actually
tubing down the Delaware River like we did last week, or perhaps on the
trampoline big enough for four in your front yard next to the zipline where you
can zoom down a cable like Batman or Kim Possible, or maybe a nice bonfire in
our front yard in our firepit and so on.

There's a treehouse (really a hunter's chair in the tree) and archery and lots
of other little things to show you that real reality is sometimes just or more
interesting than the online stuff. And I see you get it. Lead by example, not
by words. That's been my new mantra and when quarantine set in, you saw me
spring into action to make sure you weren't having the same shut-in experience
as so many from your generation.

Advice? I've got a lot. Who knows if it will even be relevant to your life by
the time you read this, however we all stand on the shoulders of giants. And
it's totally okay to borrow from others to get a point across fast. I do have a
very old webpage that I replublished recently as I migrated my decade(s)?-old
WordPress website over to plain markdown files like the one you see me typing
here. You can find it at...

- https://mikelev.in/learnings/

And there it is! I have a lot of organizing to do. But before I launch into
THAT learning (3 orders for things: sequential, organized and instant), I will
show you this YouTube video that pretty much nails it:

- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KX5fApDbiLU&t=228s

Oops, wrong journal. I have to watch it. I generally like one and only one
place for things to cut down on "search" liability when you set out to do
things. It's good to have one master location where all your important stuff
goes so you always know where to look.

Anyhoo, let's embed that bad boy... or girl... or it.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="KX5fApDbiLU" %}

Yay, I'm getting better at my vim copy/pasting. More on THAT later. It's great
to always be getting better at some tools for life which are always going to be
around in greatly unchanged form so you're not losing your skills by no fault
of your own. It's like learning how to draw on real physical media so no one
can take that skill away from you as software interfaces and apps and platforms
change on you over the years. It will happen. Decades of mastery can be wiped
out in moments as companies and developers decide to change everything on you
to force you to "modernize", but really just to re-buy a lot of stuff for the
sake of their profits and earnings.

You own your skills. Don't let anyone take them away from you. They are more
valuable than money in the bank.

Okay, what else? Not much. I'm not going to make these things too long. I'm
going to go finish watching that video myself, but I'm at 15 points of advice
out of 20 of the things you generally don't know about life until it's too
late, and they're so nailing it.

So let's start out there. Hope that video's still around by the time you're
reading this (if ever).

Hello Future Adi, my child. I love you so much! I know I referred to you as my
"child" up there, and that may trigger you as not gender neutral enough for
this day and age, so from here on even on this site, I'll be referring to you
as my child. Okay, My Child? Later Gater!


