---
layout: post
title: "Adi, Meet My First Girlfriend, The Amiga"
author: "Mike Levin"
categories: blog
slug: adi-meet-my-first-girlfriend-the-amiga
permalink: /blog/adi-meet-my-first-girlfriend-the-amiga/
---

Once upon a time Adi, your daddy didn't like computers. I fancied myself an
"art person". I had an Uncle Mort who said I should like something because it
had lots of screens and stuff. He's a suburban sprawl developer who turned
himself into some sort of Rolls Royce-driving Palm Springs Florida royalty who
didn't want to communicate with friends and family. I took offense to his
labeling me, but years later I did fall in love with computers, screens and
stuff. It wasn't video games. It was for art-work. It was the merging of art
and computers. Here's a video that sort of captures it.

{% include youtubePlayer.html id="nSONKMisWis" %}

They called it a WIMP interface, Windows, Icons Mouse and Pointer (or pull-down
menu). I guess I was sort of a wimp. I fell in love with the Amiga computer in
particular, and this was one of the mixed-blessings of my life. I actually went
to work for Commodore Computers in Westchester, Pennsylvania where the US
office was headquartered. I was the ultimate fanboy, leading the local
Philadelphia Amiga Users' Group that met out of Drexel University where I went
to college and helped secure the room for our meetings.

Then the Amiga died and everything I learned was lost effort. Or so I thought.
It turned out that everything ***other*** than the WIMPy parts of this computer
were based on something called UNIX. Unix is all that magical incantation stuff
that the presenter said you didn't have to deal with anymore. Ironically, I
drifted away from art and towards the geeky computer stuff. And so it's not
really the graphics or the screens or the animation that did me good. It was
the text. It was the vim text editor. It was piping data. It was the
command-line interface.

I am typing this to you now because of that.


